README.md, before:

In-browser 3D visualization library for rapid prototyping with built-in support for
diffuse view-dependent sparse volumes (PlenOctrees).

Install with:
`pip install nerfvis`

**Note:** this is purely Python + webasm/js/css/html and installs instantly (does not need any C++ compilation).

**Docs:** https://nerfvis.readthedocs.org

**Instant example:** `pip install nerfvis`, then
```
>>> from nerfvis import scene
>>> scene.add_cube("Cube1", color=[1.0, 0.0, 0.0])
>>> scene.display(port=8888)
```

Inside a Jupyter notebook, you can try using `scene.embed()` instead.


For example of use with data visualization (not NeRF):
http://alexyu.net/nerfvis_examples/bicycle_vis/
Data from Mip-NeRF 360 (Barron et al. CVPR 2022)


Please also see examples/nerf_pl for an example of how to visualize your own NeRF:
<https://github.com/sxyu/nerfvis/tree/master/examples/nerf_pl>.
You may also refer to the as the `scene.add_nerf` function doc: https://nerfvis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/nerfvis.html#nerfvis.Scene.add_nerf

Based on PlenOctrees: https://github.com/sxyu/plenoctrees

The following screenshots are out of date but still convey some of the functionality:

![Screenshot DTU skull](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sxyu/nerfvis/master/img/skull.gif)

![Screenshot NeRF-- Drone](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sxyu/nerfvis/master/img/youtube_drone.gif)


Tips:

- A list of all objects with the names you gave them will be displayed in a tree view on the left side of the screen, where you can toggle them. F-strings are recommended for automatically generating object names
- Use "/" inside names for example `image/0` to create nested trees.
- For convenience, we accept numpy arrays, torch Tensors, and lists in general for any arguments marked at `np.ndarray`  (by default torch is not imported to avoid having it as a dependency). 
- The initial camera pose will be automatically determined. Pass `center=[x, y, z]` (camera position) ,
    `origin=[x,y,z]` (camera target), `forward=[x,y,z]` (forward vector), `world_up=[x,y,z]` (world space up vector) to display() or export() or embed() to manually set an initial pose. 
    A convenience function `scene.set_opencv()` is given to set the world up axis to `-y` (this also changes the default behavior of `add_image`).
- Use `scene.export("path")` to manually generate a directory you can open in the browser or upload somewhere


## Examples

### Viewing a volume

```python
from nerfvis import scene
import numpy as np

density = 1.0 / (np.linalg.norm((np.mgrid[:100, :100, :100].transpose(1, 2, 3, 0) - 45.5) / 50,
                         axis=-1) + 1e-5)  # (Dx, Dy, Dz)
color = np.zeros((100, 100, 100, 3), dtype=np.float32) # (Dx, Dy, Dz, 3)
color[..., 0] = 1.0
color[..., 1] = 0.5
scene.add_volume('My volume 1', density, color, scale=0.2, translation=[-1, 0, 0])

color[..., 1] = 0.0
scene.add_volume('My volume 2', density, color, scale=0.2, translation=[1, 0, 0])
scene.display() # or embed(), etc
```

For an example with a few more objects, see `examples/hierarchy.py`, which outputs
http://alexyu.net/nerfvis_examples/basic_scene_with_volume/

### Load a PlenOctrees checkpoint

For directly displaying a plenoctree checkpoint: `examples/load_plenoctree_ckpt.py`.
Note that the checkpoint better be reasonably small or this will take forever...

```python
from nerfvis import scene
# Download from
# https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1vGXEjb3yhbClrZH1vLdl2iKtowfinWOg
scene.set_title("Lego Bulldozer using nerfvis")
scene.add_volume_from_npz('Lego', "lego.npz", scale=1.0)
scene.display() # or embed(), etc
```

### Visualizing COLMAP data

Given:
- camera-to-world poses `c2w` in OpenCV convention `(n_images, 4, 4)`
  (also easy to use OpenGL convention: use z=-1 and opengl=True below)
- focal length, image size
- COLMAP point cloud `(n_points, 3)` (optional), optionally with errors `(n_points,)`
- Images `(n_images, h, w)`

Note that OpenCV poses are now preferrred,
although the original NeRF/PlenOctrees used OpenGL.

```python
from nerfvis import scene
# Set -y up world, and also flips the image
scene.set_opencv() 

# To show have errors
colors = np.zeros_like(point_cloud)
colors[:, 0] = point_cloud_errs / point_cloud_errs.max()
scene.add_points("points", point_cloud, vert_color=colors)
# Else
# scene.add_points("points", point_cloud, color=[0.0, 0.0, 0.0])
scene.add_camera_frustum("cameras", r=c2ws[:, :3, :3], t=c2ws[:, :3, 3], focal_length=f,
                         image_width=images.shape[2], image_height=images.shape[1],
                         z=0.1, connect=False, color=[1.0, 0.0, 0.0])

for i in range(len(c2w)):
    scene.add_image(
                  f"images/i",
                  images[i],
                  r=c2ws[i, :3, :3], t=c2ws[i, :3, 3],
                  focal_lenght=f,
                  z=0.1,
                  image_size)
scene.add_axes()
scene.display()
```

Example outputs (not quite the same code):
http://alexyu.net/nerfvis_examples/basic_scene_with_volume/
http://alexyu.net/nerfvis_examples/bicycle_vis/
Data from Mip-NeRF 360 (Barron et al. CVPR 2022)

### Visualizing NeRF directly through svox

This is the most flexible way to directly discretize and show a NeRF,
albeit a bit clunky to use and requiring extra dependencies.

Example: please see `examples/` for how to view NeRF models; currently contains an example for nerf_pl (https://github.com/kwea123/nerf_pl):
![Basic silica low ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sxyu/nerfvis/master/img/silica_low.gif)

```python
import nerfvis
scene = nerfvis.Scene("My title")
scene.add_cube("Cube1", color=[1.0, 0.0, 0.0], translation=[-1.0, -1.0, 0.0])
scene.add_axes()
scene.add_nerf("NeRF", nerf_func, center=[0.0, 0.0, 0.0], radius=1.5, use_dirs=True)
scene.display(port=8889)
# Tries to open the scene in your browser
# (you may have to forward the port and enter localhost:8889 manually if over ssh)
```

Use `display(open_browser=False)` to prevent opening the browser (while serving the website)

You can also add meshes, points, lines (see docs).
Note that each object e.g. cube, mesh, points, etc. must have a unique name to identify it
right now. You may programmatically generate this. They will show up in the *layers* pane
(top right of the html viewer)
**New in 0.0.6: Use / in the name e.g. cubes/red/cube001 to put meshes into folders in the layers pane.**


Please also `pip install torch svox tqdm scipy` for adding NeRF (`set_nerf`)
or `pip install trimesh` for using `add_mesh_from_file(path)`.

To add cameras (also used for scaling scene, initializing camera etc), use 
`add_camera_frustum(focal_length=.., image_width=.., image_height=.., z=..,  r=.., t=..)`


## Source of pre-compiled binaries

This project contains a index.html containing inlined wasm, which comes from  `volrend`, the branch `nerfvis_base`, compiled using Emscripten as per the instructions in that repo.

https://github.com/sxyu/volrend/tree/nerfvis_base

## Citation

If you find  this useful please consider citing
```
@inproceedings{yu2021plenoctrees,
      title={{PlenOctrees} for Real-time Rendering of Neural Radiance Fields},
      author={Alex Yu and Ruilong Li and Matthew Tancik and Hao Li and Ren Ng and Angjoo Kanazawa},
      year={2021},
      booktitle={ICCV},
}
```

License: BSD 2-clause

Commit message:

Improved controls and fixed resize issue; added controls in doc

README.md, after:

In-browser 3D visualization library for rapid prototyping with built-in support for
diffuse view-dependent sparse volumes (PlenOctrees).

Install with:
`pip install nerfvis`

**Note:** this is purely Python + webasm/js/css/html and installs instantly (does not need any C++ compilation).

**Docs:** https://nerfvis.readthedocs.org

**Instant example:** `pip install nerfvis`, then
```
>>> from nerfvis import scene
>>> scene.add_cube("Cube1", color=[1.0, 0.0, 0.0])
>>> scene.display(port=8888)
```

Inside a Jupyter notebook, you can try using `scene.embed()` instead.


For example of use with data visualization (not NeRF):
http://alexyu.net/nerfvis_examples/bicycle_vis/
Data from Mip-NeRF 360 (Barron et al. CVPR 2022)


Please also see examples/nerf_pl for an example of how to visualize your own NeRF:
<https://github.com/sxyu/nerfvis/tree/master/examples/nerf_pl>.
You may also refer to the as the `scene.add_nerf` function doc: https://nerfvis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/nerfvis.html#nerfvis.Scene.add_nerf

Based on PlenOctrees: https://github.com/sxyu/plenoctrees

The following screenshots are out of date but still convey some of the functionality:

![Screenshot DTU skull](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sxyu/nerfvis/master/img/skull.gif)

![Screenshot NeRF-- Drone](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sxyu/nerfvis/master/img/youtube_drone.gif)


Tips:

- A list of all objects with the names you gave them will be displayed in a tree view on the left side of the screen, where you can toggle them. F-strings are recommended for automatically generating object names
- Use "/" inside names for example `image/0` to create nested trees.
- For convenience, we accept numpy arrays, torch Tensors, and lists in general for any arguments marked at `np.ndarray`  (by default torch is not imported to avoid having it as a dependency). 
- The initial camera pose will be automatically determined. Pass `center=[x, y, z]` (camera position) ,
    `origin=[x,y,z]` (camera target), `forward=[x,y,z]` (forward vector), `world_up=[x,y,z]` (world space up vector) to display() or export() or embed() to manually set an initial pose. 
    A convenience function `scene.set_opencv()` is given to set the world up axis to `-y` (this also changes the default behavior of `add_image`).
- Use `scene.export("path")` to manually generate a directory you can open in the browser or upload somewhere


## Examples

### Viewing a volume

```python
from nerfvis import scene
import numpy as np

density = 1.0 / (np.linalg.norm((np.mgrid[:100, :100, :100].transpose(1, 2, 3, 0) - 45.5) / 50,
                         axis=-1) + 1e-5)  # (Dx, Dy, Dz)
color = np.zeros((100, 100, 100, 3), dtype=np.float32) # (Dx, Dy, Dz, 3)
color[..., 0] = 1.0
color[..., 1] = 0.5
scene.add_volume('My volume 1', density, color, scale=0.2, translation=[-1, 0, 0])

color[..., 1] = 0.0
scene.add_volume('My volume 2', density, color, scale=0.2, translation=[1, 0, 0])
scene.display() # or embed(), etc
```

For an example with a few more objects, see `examples/hierarchy.py`, which outputs
http://alexyu.net/nerfvis_examples/basic_scene_with_volume/

### Load a PlenOctrees checkpoint

For directly displaying a plenoctree checkpoint: `examples/load_plenoctree_ckpt.py`.
Note that the checkpoint better be reasonably small or this will take forever...

```python
from nerfvis import scene
# Download from
# https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1vGXEjb3yhbClrZH1vLdl2iKtowfinWOg
scene.set_title("Lego Bulldozer using nerfvis")
scene.add_volume_from_npz('Lego', "lego.npz", scale=1.0)
scene.display() # or embed(), etc
```

### Visualizing COLMAP data

Given:
- camera-to-world poses `c2w` in OpenCV convention `(n_images, 4, 4)`
  (also easy to use OpenGL convention: use z=-1 and opengl=True below)
- focal length, image size
- COLMAP point cloud `(n_points, 3)` (optional), optionally with errors `(n_points,)`
- Images `(n_images, h, w)`

Note that OpenCV poses are now preferrred,
although the original NeRF/PlenOctrees used OpenGL.

```python
from nerfvis import scene
# Set -y up world, and also flips the image
scene.set_opencv() 

# To show have errors
colors = np.zeros_like(point_cloud)
colors[:, 0] = point_cloud_errs / point_cloud_errs.max()
scene.add_points("points", point_cloud, vert_color=colors)
# Else
# scene.add_points("points", point_cloud, color=[0.0, 0.0, 0.0])
scene.add_camera_frustum("cameras", r=c2ws[:, :3, :3], t=c2ws[:, :3, 3], focal_length=f,
                         image_width=images.shape[2], image_height=images.shape[1],
                         z=0.1, connect=False, color=[1.0, 0.0, 0.0])

for i in range(len(c2w)):
    scene.add_image(
                  f"images/i",
                  images[i],
                  r=c2ws[i, :3, :3], t=c2ws[i, :3, 3],
                  focal_lenght=f,
                  z=0.1,
                  image_size)
scene.add_axes()
scene.display()
```

Example outputs (not quite the same code):
http://alexyu.net/nerfvis_examples/basic_scene_with_volume/
http://alexyu.net/nerfvis_examples/bicycle_vis/
Data from Mip-NeRF 360 (Barron et al. CVPR 2022)

### Visualizing NeRF directly through svox

This is the most flexible way to directly discretize and show a NeRF,
albeit a bit clunky to use and requiring extra dependencies.

Example: please see `examples/` for how to view NeRF models; currently contains an example for nerf_pl (https://github.com/kwea123/nerf_pl):
![Basic silica low ](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sxyu/nerfvis/master/img/silica_low.gif)

```python
import nerfvis
scene = nerfvis.Scene("My title")
scene.add_cube("Cube1", color=[1.0, 0.0, 0.0], translation=[-1.0, -1.0, 0.0])
scene.add_axes()
scene.add_nerf("NeRF", nerf_func, center=[0.0, 0.0, 0.0], radius=1.5, use_dirs=True)
scene.display(port=8889)
# Tries to open the scene in your browser
# (you may have to forward the port and enter localhost:8889 manually if over ssh)
```

Use `display(open_browser=False)` to prevent opening the browser (while serving the website)

You can also add meshes, points, lines (see docs).
Note that each object e.g. cube, mesh, points, etc. must have a unique name to identify it
right now. You may programmatically generate this. They will show up in the *layers* pane
(top right of the html viewer)


Please also `pip install torch svox tqdm scipy` for adding NeRF (`set_nerf`)
or `pip install trimesh` for using `add_mesh_from_file(path)`.

To add cameras (also used for scaling scene, initializing camera etc), use 
`add_camera_frustum(focal_length=.., image_width=.., image_height=.., z=..,  r=.., t=..)`

## Viewer Controls

- Left click and drag to orbit
- Right click and drag, or CTRL+left click and drag to pan
- Mouse wheel, middle click and drag, or ALT+left click and drag to zoom; alternatively use =/SHIFT+=
- Number keys 1-6 to change coordinate systems: Z up/down Y up/down X up/down resp.


## Source of pre-compiled binaries

This project contains a index.html containing inlined wasm, which comes from  `volrend`, the branch `nerfvis_base`, compiled using Emscripten as per the instructions in that repo.

https://github.com/sxyu/volrend/tree/nerfvis_base

## Citation

If you find  this useful please consider citing
```
@inproceedings{yu2021plenoctrees,
      title={{PlenOctrees} for Real-time Rendering of Neural Radiance Fields},
      author={Alex Yu and Ruilong Li and Matthew Tancik and Hao Li and Ren Ng and Angjoo Kanazawa},
      year={2021},
      booktitle={ICCV},
}
```

License: BSD 2-clause
